Split resolveMessage() into format() & formatToParts() (#22)
tc39/proposal-intl-messageformat: README.md

## Use cases

> The primary use case is the retrieval and resolution of localized text (i.e. a “message”)

Author: Not really, they're just pretty? 😇

```js
const source = ... // string source of the message as above
const mf = new Intl.MessageFormat(source, ['en']);
const notifications = mf.format({ count: 1 });

> // 'You have 1 new notification'

Reviewer: > The relatively common use case of formatting a message to a string requires the construction of a bunch of intermediate JS objects that are then immediately dismissed, which is pretty inefficient.

Looks like this PR still needs a lot of intermediate JS objects.

I thought it would be something like this:

```js
const mf = new Intl.MessageFormat('en');
const notifications = mf.format(source, { count: 1 });
const another_string = mf.format(source2, { interop: 1 });
```

Author: That approach would leave the greatest part of the work to the `format()` calls, though, and that's quite different from how existing Intl formatters work.

Consider for instance how unit formatting works:

```js
const nf = new Intl.NumberFormat('en-GB', { style: 'unit', unit: 'kilometer', unitDisplay: 'long' });
nf.format(42); // "42 kilometres"
```

There, everything except for the final runtime values is included in the constructor. Now, let's say that we wanted that distance to be embedded in a longer message. With the currently proposed API that would look like this:

```js
const src = `
  let $dist = {$dist :number style=unit unit=kilometer unitDisplay=long}
  {Your destination is in {$dist}.}`;
const mf = new Intl.MessageFormat(src, 'en-GB');
mf.format({ dist: 42 }); // "Your destination is in 42 kilometres."
```

In other words, when getting either a NumberFormat or MessageFormat instance, we should be able to tell what sort of a thing it's formatting. If we leave the source to be a `format()` argument for MessageFormat, we won't be able to really say anything at all about the MessageFormat instance, or whether the message source is even syntactically valid.

Author: @Jack-Works As moving the source argument to the `format()` and `formatToParts()` methods could be considered as a next step from this PR, please open a separate issue to consider that. I would be happy to continue there.

Reviewer: ok, I agree, but does that mean we need to create a new object for every message we have?

Author: Yeah, that's what it means.

    options?: MessageFormatOptions
  ): MessageFormat;

  format(
    values?: Record<string, unknown>,
    onError?: (error: Error) => void
  ): string;

  formatToParts(
    values?: Record<string, unknown>,
    onError?: (error: Error) => void

>   ): MessagePart[];

Author: Would that make the error handling potentially weird, though? Let's say that a user does this:
```js
const src = '{n is {$n :number minimumFractionDigits=999}}';
const mf = new Intl.MessageFormat(src, 'en');
const parts = mf.formatToParts({ n: 42 }, console.warn);
for (let part of parts) console.log(part);
```

With array output, it's pretty clear that the `console.warn` call will happen before the `console.log` calls. But with an iterable that's formatting parts lazily, that might log:
```js
{ type: 'literal', value: 'n is ' }
RangeError: invalid digits value: 999
{ type: 'fallback', source: '$n' }
```
whereas a more eager implementation would report the error earlier.

>   ): MessagePart[];

Author: Yes, but then the implementation needs to internally hold an array of formatted parts, and there's no utility in the external interface being an Iterable.

>   ): MessagePart[];

Reviewer 2: > Would that make the error handling potentially weird, though?
> With array output, it's pretty clear that the console.warn call will happen before the console.log calls.

Yielding allows both approaches — it's always possible to accumulate the yielded values into an array before doing more with them.

More to the point, however: `Iterable<MessagePart>` doesn't mandate returning a generator. Returning an array from that API would still be valid. I guess what I'm trying to say is: do we actually want it to be an array? E.g. do we want to read `.length` or access parts by index?

>   ): MessagePart[];

Author: I think we do want an array. Not because we may want to read its length or access parts by index, but because:
1. It's clearer to the caller that `onError` will never be called after the function has returned a value.
2. It's much more user-friendly to allow resetting the position within the parts.

@stasm It would be helpful to have an example or two of use cases which "may benefit from a more lazy approach made possible by the use of generators".

>   ): MessagePart[];

Reviewer 2: Filed #23 to continue this.

  If `onError` is not defined,
  a warning will be issued for each error and a [fallback representation] used for the corresponding message part.

To determine the value `res` returned by the `format()` method,
the message is first resolved to a pattern (a list of MessageValue).
Starting with an empty string `res`, for each MessageValue `mv`:

1. Let `strval` be the result of calling `mv.toString()`.
1. If the call fails or `strval` is not a string:
   1. Set `strval` to be the concatenation of `{`, `mv.source`, and `}`.
1. Append `strval` to the end of `res`.

#### formatToParts(values?, onError?)

For formatting a message to non-string targets,
the `formatToParts()` method is provided, returning an array of `MessagePart` objects.
This method has the following optional arguments:

- `values` provide variable values for the message's variable references.
- `onError` defines an error handler that will be called if
  message resolution or formatting fails.
  If `onError` is not defined,
  a warning will be issued for each error and a [fallback representation] used for the corresponding message part.

To determine the value `res` returned by the `formatToParts()` method,

> the message is first resolved to a pattern (a list of MessageValue).

Author: ```suggestion
the message is first resolved to a list of MessageValue instances.
```

(if a single string) a comma-delimited list of BCP 47 locale identifiers.

#### Default Functions

Two commonly used message functions `number` and `string` are provided as a starting point,
and as handlers for placeholders without an annotation,
such as variable references like `{$foo}` or literal values like `{|the bar|}`.

Variable references are resolved by first looking for a local variable declaration
matching its name, then by looking in the `values` argument.
Literal values always resolve as a string.

As selector expressions must have an annotation or contain a variable reference
that references a variable declaration within the same message with an annotation,
un-annotated expressions only need to be considered for formattable placeholders.

If a placeholder expression would resolve to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,
it resolves instead to the result of calling the `number` function
with the numerical value as input and no options.

If a placeholder expression would resolve to a string value or a String instance,
it resolves instead to the result of calling the `string` function
with the value as input and no options.

> Otherwise, un-annotated values resolve to the following shape:

Author: > I'd like to suggest that `format` and `formatToParts` take a dictionary whose values are either `unknown` or instances of `MessageValue`. This allows two interesting use-cases:
> 1. Pre-set certain formatting options on input values.

This is possible without making `MessageValue` a fully-fledged class. To see what I mean, take a look at how the proposed [behaviour of the `:number` formatter](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-messageformat/blob/updates/README.md#number) constructs options.

> 2. Pass instances of custom types which extend `MessageValue`.

What would be the benefit of allowing that to happen without a custom annotation on the expression? As proposed, it's possible to return custom `MessageValue` extensions from a user-defined function, but it does require an annotation on the MF2 expression.

> Then, you'd first check if an un-annotated value is an instance of `MessageValue`. If so, carry on. If not, resolve to `MessageUnknownValue`.

How would you propose that we "check if an un-annotated value is an instance of `MessageValue`"? As currently proposed, that's just an interface description for plain objects with some expected properties.

> This way, you don't have to try to resolve every expression to a number and string first.

The number/string/unknown resolution that I think you're referring to here is what's applied with an unannotated expression, like `{$foo}`. It's not applied when resolving e.g. `{$foo :custom}`, which instead calls the `custom` function that's defined in the constructor options, which is expected to return a `MessageValue`.

> Otherwise, un-annotated values resolve to the following shape:

Reviewer 2: Filed #24 to continue the discussion about whether `MessageValue` should be subclassable, and if it should be allowed to be passed as input variables.

These allow for any data types to be handled by custom functions.
Such functions may be referenced within messages,
and then called with the resolved values of their arguments and options.

```ts
interface MessageFormatOptions {
  functions?: { [key: string]: MessageFunction };
  localeMatcher?: 'best fit' | 'lookup';
}

interface ResolvedMessageFormatOptions {
  functions: { [key: string]: MessageFunction };
  locales: string[];
  localeMatcher: 'best fit' | 'lookup';
  message: MessageData;
}
```

#### format(values?, onError?)

As with other `Intl` formatters, `format()` returns a string.
This method has the following optional arguments:

> - `values` provide variable values for the message's variable references.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `values` provides variable values for the message's variable references.
```

- `onError` defines an error handler that will be called if
  message resolution or formatting fails.
  If `onError` is not defined,
  a warning will be issued for each error and a [fallback representation] used for the corresponding message part.

To determine the value `res` returned by the `format()` method,
the message is first resolved to a list of MessageValue instances.
Starting with an empty string `res`, for each MessageValue `mv`:

1. Let `strval` be the result of calling `mv.toString()`.
1. If the call fails or `strval` is not a string:
   1. Set `strval` to be the concatenation of `{`, `mv.source`, and `}`.
1. Append `strval` to the end of `res`.

#### formatToParts(values?, onError?)

For formatting a message to non-string targets,
the `formatToParts()` method is provided, returning an array of `MessagePart` objects.
This method has the following optional arguments:

> - `values` provide variable values for the message's variable references.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `values` provides variable values for the message's variable references.
```

1. For each `part` or `parts`:
   1. Append `part` to `res`.

[fallback representation]: https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/blob/main/spec/formatting.md#fallback-resolution

### MessageValue

When formatting a message,
the selectors and placeholders of a message are each resolved first
to an intermediate `MessageValue` representation.
This can be thought of as an immutable object with properties and methods,
though its JavaScript representation is only available to custom functions.

```ts
interface MessageValue {
  type: string;
  locale: string;
  source: string;
  options?: { [key: string]: unknown };
  selectKeys?: (keys: string[]) => string[];
  toParts?: () => MessagePart[];
  toString?: () => string;
  valueOf?: () => unknown;
}
```

A `MessageValue` is an object with a string `type`, a string `locale` identifier,
and an opaque `source` string identifying its origin.
All other fields are optional;
they determine how the value may be used in MF2 expressions.

In order to be usable as a formatted placeholder,
the object (or its prototype chain) MUST include a `toString` method returning a string

> and a `toParts` method returning an array of `MessagePart`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and a `toParts` method returning an array of `MessagePart`s.
```

All of the built-in implementations of this method return an array with exactly one value,
but user-defined functions may return any number of parts, or none.

In order to be usable as a variant selector,
the object MUST include a `selectKeys` method.

> When called with an array of string keys for the message's variants,
> it MUST return an array with a subset of those keys,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When called with an array of string keys,
it MUST return an array whose elements are a subset of those keys,
```

> filtered to only matching values for the selector and sorted by preference.

Reviewer 3: I find this line a little bit weird in the context of normative language. "filtered to only matching values for the selector and sorted by preference" doesn't describe a requirement on the method -- it describes how the return value of the method is interpreted. It wouldn't break anything if the method _didn't_ filter and sort its results; "its elements are a subset of those keys" can be checked, but the filtering and sorting can't because those are inherently user-defined.

Author: Fair point. This should probably be broken into two sentences, with the latter describing how the implementation will treat the returned values as if they were filtered and sorted.

Within a message, the value of an expression may be assigned to a message-local variable,
and such a variable may be used as an input argument to another expression,

> or as an option value.

Reviewer 3: I'm confused about why this text is here -- it doesn't seem to be describing a `MessageValue` object. Should it be in the "Expressions" subsection instead?

Author: It's here to act as preface for the next sentence, which explains that the `options` and `valueOf` of a `MessageValue` are for.

Some functions (including the default `number`) accept as input
objects with a `valueOf` method and an `options` field in addition to `type` and `locale`.
These MAY also be defined on the returned object.

#### Literal Text

Text in patterns outside expressions is always literal.
While its resolved value is never presented as JS,
for the sake of simplicity it may be thought of as having the following resolved value:

```ts
interface MessageLiteral {
  type: 'literal';
  locale: string;
  source: string;
  toParts(): [MessageLiteralPart];
  toString(): string;
}

interface MessageLiteralPart {
  type: 'literal';
  value: string;
}
```

> For `MessageLiteral`, the value returned by `toString()` and the `toParts()` `value`

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what "the `toParts()` `value`" means -- should this be something like "the `value` field of each `MessageLiteralParts` in the array returned by `toParts()`"?

Author: Yes. Would this be clearer?

```suggestion
For `MessageLiteral`, the value returned by `toString()` and
the `value` field of each entry in the array returned by `toParts()` 
```

correspond to the text source.
Its `locale` is always the same as the message's base locale.

#### Expressions

Expressions are used as selectors and as pattern placeholders.

> Local variable declarations may assign their value to a local variable,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A local variable declaration may assign the value of an expression to a local variable,
```

allowing for the same expression to be used in multiple places
and potentially with different roles.

> An expression may contain just a literal value or a variable reference as an operand,
> an operand and an annotation, or just an annotation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An expression may have one of three forms:
* An operand (either a literal value or a variable reference).
* An operand with an annotation.
* An annotation with no operand.
```

The number of commas in this sentence makes it hard for me to (mentally) parse.

> The resolution of standalone annotations is customisable

Reviewer 3: I think "standalone annotation" hasn't been defined yet. (With my previous suggested edit, the third bullet point could be "A standalone annotation (annotation with no operand)".)

Author: It's meant to refer to `:foo` function annotations, but it's probably better to not use the term at all. Would this work for you?

```suggestion
The resolution of annotations using the `:` prefix is customisable
```

using the constructor's `functions` option,

> which take `MessageFunction` function values that are applied when

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which takes `MessageFunction` function values that are applied when
```

the annotation's name (without the `:`) corresponds to the `functions` key.

### MessageFunction

Fundamentally, messages are formed by concatenating values together.
In order to support the handling of user-defined value types with user-defined formatting options,
as well as other needs,
user-provided message functions may be provided via the constructor's `functions` option
to complement or replace the default ones.

```ts
type MessageFunction = (
  locales: string[],
  options: { [key: string]: MessageValue },
  input?: MessageValue
) => MessageValue;
```

As function options are often set by literal values,
and as MF2 considers all literals to be strings,
the JSON string representation should be supported for numerical and boolean values
when used as an input or as an option value.

> Each function will need to parse these separately from their string representations.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what this sentence means.

Author: I'm trying to say that literal values that look like they could be numeric or boolean are not cast as such by the implementation, but that a custom function will still get them as strings and needs to do the work internally.

Reviewer 3: I had thought something like that; is there a more precise way to specify what it means to "look like" they could be numeric or boolean? (Perhaps, for numbers, referring to the ECMAScript [`ToNumeric`](https://262.ecma-international.org/14.0/#sec-tonumeric) abstract operation, or something like that?)

Author: The JSON reference is actually rather precise and intentional here, because numeric casts within JS (such as the ToNumeric abstract operation) end up succeeding for e.g. `Number('Infinity')`, and I don't think that should be generally supported. This also does not include numeric forms like `1_000` which are valid JS.

Reviewer 4: We could probably link to the grammar in ECMA-404 for this

If a function is locale-dependent,
it should accept an extra option key called `locale`
which resolves to a string overriding the message's base locale.
This option value should always be parsed as an array or
(if a single string) a comma-delimited list of BCP 47 locale identifiers.

#### Default Functions

Two commonly used message functions `number` and `string` are provided as a starting point,

> and as handlers for placeholders without an annotation,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and as handlers for expressions without an annotation,
```

Author: No, this is deliberate. Selectors without an annotation do not get a default handler.

such as variable references like `{$foo}` or literal values like `{|the bar|}`.

Variable references are resolved by first looking for a local variable declaration
matching its name, then by looking in the `values` argument.

> Literal values always resolve as a string.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Literal values always resolve to strings.
```

As selector expressions must have an annotation or contain a variable reference
that references a variable declaration within the same message with an annotation,
un-annotated expressions only need to be considered for formattable placeholders.

> If a placeholder expression would resolve to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,

Author: I'm trying to say that something like `{$foo}` with `{ foo: 42 }` as `values` does not resolve to the number `42`, but to the result of calling `number(42)`. Any thoughts on how to say this better, because I agree that this form is a bit too clumsy?

> If a placeholder expression would resolve to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,

Reviewer 3: Maybe this can also be expressed in terms of abstract operations like `ToNumeric`, as in https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-messageformat/pull/22#discussion_r1274566008 ?

> If a placeholder expression would resolve to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,

Reviewer 4: "If the placeholder expression corresponds to a numerical value (a number or bigint primitive or a `Number` object), it would resolve to the result of..."

> If a placeholder expression would resolve to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,

Author: Would this perhaps be clearer?

```suggestion
If a placeholder expression contains a variable reference without an annotation
and the variable resolves to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,
```

> If a placeholder expression would resolve to a number or bigint value or a Number instance,

Reviewer 2: I filed #26 to consider introducing abstract operations. I'm still not happy with the phrasing of "if a variable resolves to...".

with the value as input and no options.

Otherwise, un-annotated values resolve to the following shape:

```ts
interface MessageUnknownValue {
  type: 'unknown';
  locale: string;
  source: string;
  toParts(): [MessageUnknownPart];
  toString(): string;
  valueOf(): unknown;
}

interface MessageUnknownPart {
  type: 'unknown';
  value: unknown;
}
```

With `MessageUnknownValue`,
the `toString()` method uses the equivalent of `String()` to format the value
while `valueOf()` returns the original value.

If the constructor options of a MessageFormat instance include a `functions` value
that overrides the default `number` or `string` functions,
those will be called instead of the default ones, as appropriate.

#### `number`

Accepts as input any of the following:

- A number or a bigint.
  This is used directly as the `value`.
- An object with a `valueOf()` method that returns a number or a bigint,
  which is then used as the `value`.
- The JSON string representation of a number, to accommodate literal values as in `{42 :number}`.
  The `value` is determined by the equivalent of calling `JSON.parse()` on the string,
  and asserting that it returns a number or a bigint.

> For all other inputs, no input, or on any error while determining `value`,
> resolves to a fallback value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Returns a fallback value if invoked without such an input,
or if an error occurs while determining `value`.
```

3. The base locale or locale chain of the message.

To determine the formatting and selection options for the number,
a new empty `options` object is created.
If the input is an object with a property `"options"` with an object value,
the `options` object is extended with its values.
Then, a primitive value is set for each of the expression's options except `"locale"`:

- For each option value, if it is an object, coerce it to a string.
- For `useGrouping`, convert `"true"` and `"false"` to their corresponding boolean values.
- For `roundingIncrement`, `minimumIntegerDigits`, and `(minimum|maximum)(Fraction|Significant)Digits`,
  parse a string value as a non-negative integer number.

Returns a value with the following shape:

```ts
interface MessageNumber {
  type: 'number';
  locale: string;
  source: string;
  options: Intl.NumberFormatOptions & Intl.PluralRulesOptions;
  selectKeys(keys: string[]): string[];
  toParts(): [MessageNumberPart];
  toString(): string;
  valueOf(): number | bigint;
}

interface MessageNumberPart {
  type: 'number';
  locale: string;
  parts: Intl.NumberFormatPart[];
}
```

> When a `MessageNumber` is used as a selector (calling `selectKeys()`),

Author: Here `selectKeys()` is a method of the `MessageNumber` instance. Would this work?

```suggestion
When a `MessageNumber` is used as a selector (calling its `selectKeys()` method),
```

- `onError` defines an error handler that will be called if
  message resolution or formatting fails.
  If `onError` is not defined,
  a warning will be issued for each error and a [fallback representation] used for the corresponding message part.

To determine the value `res` returned by the `formatToParts()` method,
the message is first resolved to a list of MessageValue instances.
Starting with an empty array `res`, for each MessageValue `mv`:

1. Let `parts` be the result of calling `mv.toParts()`.
1. If the call fails or `parts` is not an array:
   1. Set `parts` to be `[{ type: 'fallback', locale: 'und', source: mv.source }]`.
1. For each `part` or `parts`:
   1. Append `part` to `res`.

[fallback representation]: https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/blob/main/spec/formatting.md#fallback-resolution

### MessageValue

When formatting a message,
the selectors and placeholders of a message are each resolved first
to an intermediate `MessageValue` representation.
This can be thought of as an immutable object with properties and methods,
though its JavaScript representation is only available to custom functions.

```ts
interface MessageValue {
  type: string;

>   locale: string;

Author: We need the locale here to support messages which embed parts that are not in the message's locale. Consider for example:
> The number 1,234.5 is formatted in French as "1 234,5".

When formatting that to parts, the last two parts end up as:
```js
[
  ...,
  { type: 'number', locale: 'fr', parts: [{ type: 'integer', value: '1' }, ...] },
  { type: 'literal', value: '".' }
]
```

To get there, the `fr` locale needs to be available in the corresponding `MessageValue`. It does _not_ need to be available in `$count`, because `:number` defines its own expected input shape, and for that the `locale` is optional.

Fundamentally, `MessageValue` is a resolved value that contains everything needed to format it, or to do something else with it like feed it into some custom function. That includes its locale.

>   locale: string;

Reviewer 2: Filed #25 to continue this, because I still think `locale` is special and should not be part of `MessageValue`.

  source: string;
  options?: { [key: string]: unknown };
  selectKeys?: (keys: string[]) => string[];
  toParts?: () => MessagePart[];
  toString?: () => string;
  valueOf?: () => unknown;
}
```

A `MessageValue` is an object with a string `type`, a string `locale` identifier,
and an opaque `source` string identifying its origin.
All other fields are optional;
they determine how the value may be used in MF2 expressions.

In order to be usable as a formatted placeholder,
the object (or its prototype chain) MUST include a `toString` method returning a string
and a `toParts` method returning an array of `MessagePart`s.
All of the built-in implementations of this method return an array with exactly one value,
but user-defined functions may return any number of parts, or none.

In order to be usable as a variant selector,
the object MUST include a `selectKeys` method.

> When called with an array of string keys,
> it MUST return an array whose elements are a subset of those keys,
> filtered to only matching values for the selector and sorted by preference.

Author: ```suggestion
When called with an array of string keys,
it MUST return an array whose elements are a subset of those keys.
The returned keys will be considered to match the selector and be in preferential order.
```

Within a message, the value of an expression may be assigned to a message-local variable,
and such a variable may be used as an input argument to another expression,
or as an option value.

> Some functions (including the default `number`) accept as input
> objects with a `valueOf` method and an `options` field in addition to `type` and `locale`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some functions (including the default `number`) accept  objects with a `valueOf` method and an `options` field in addition to `type` and `locale` as input.
```

nit: slightly easier to read

#### Expressions

Expressions are used as selectors and as pattern placeholders.
A local variable declaration may assign the value of an expression to a local variable,
allowing for the same expression to be used in multiple places
and potentially with different roles.

An expression may have one of three forms:

- An operand (either a literal value or a variable reference).
- An operand with an annotation.
- An annotation with no operand.

The resolution of annotations using the `:` prefix is customisable
using the constructor's `functions` option,
which takes `MessageFunction` function values that are applied when
the annotation's name (without the `:`) corresponds to the `functions` key.

### MessageFunction

Fundamentally, messages are formed by concatenating values together.
In order to support the handling of user-defined value types with user-defined formatting options,
as well as other needs,
user-provided message functions may be provided via the constructor's `functions` option
to complement or replace the default ones.

```ts
type MessageFunction = (
  locales: string[],
  options: { [key: string]: MessageValue },

>   input?: MessageValue

Author: For `options` it's meant to follow the steps defined under [Default Functions](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-intl-messageformat/blob/updates/README.md#default-functions), but that should be made explicit.

The `input` type should be `unknown`, i.e. no conversion is made.
```suggestion
  input?: unknown
```

> ```ts
> type MessageFunction = (
>   locales: string[],
>   options: { [key: string]: MessageValue },
>   input?: MessageValue
> ) => MessageValue;
> ```
> 

Author: @stasm, I changed my mind and also `options` really should be `unknown`.

````suggestion
```ts
type MessageFunction = (
  locales: string[],
  options: { [key: string]: unknown },
  input?: unknown
) => MessageValue;
```

The `input` and `options` values are constructed as follows:
- If the value is a literal defined in the message syntax,
  the value is its `string` value.
- If the value is a variable referring to a local variable declaration,
  the value is the `MessageValue` that the declaration's expression resolves to.
- Otherwise, the value is a variable referring to an external value,
  and its type and value are that of the external value.

````

Reviewer 2: OK, I think this could work, but I filed #27 to have a place to discuss this further and confirm.

On error, resolves to a fallback value.

Accepts only the `locale` option as an override for the message's locale.

Returns a value with the following shape:

```ts
interface MessageString {
  type: 'string';
  locale: string;
  source: string;
  selectKeys(keys: string[]): [] | [string];
  toParts(): [MessageStringPart];
  toString(): string;
  valueOf(): string;
}

interface MessageStringPart {
  type: 'string';
  locale: string;
  value: string;
}
```

When a `MessageString` is used as a selector,
the returned array may include at most one entry,
if one of the keys was an exact string match for the value.

### Fallback Values

It's possible for a `MessageFunction` call to throw an error,
or for a `format()` or `formatToParts()` call to throw an error.
When this happens,
the error is caught and a user-provided `onError` handler is called.
If no such handler is defined,
the default behaviour is to issue a warning rather than throwing the error.
This allows for some formatted representation to always be provided.

In such a case, a fallback representation is used instead for the value:

```ts
interface MessageFallback {
  type: 'fallback';

>   locale: 'und';

Reviewer 4: is it better to return something like `null` that makes it obvious that it's not a useful value? Otherwise someone might write code that extracts this and passes this elsewhere without checking for `"und"` (I suppose they could still do that with `null` but atleast the error would be more obvious then).

Author: I actually think we ought to make `und` into a working reference for the root locale, but that's rather from this proposal. I need to organise my thoughts on this some more and raise an issue about this in TG2.
